# Study on the Urban Integration of Shanghai’s Maglev Technology

**By Jossue Sarango**

## Abstract

As the first commercially operated train to incorporate electromagnetic suspension, it is essential to analyze how the Shanghai maglev train has implemented itself into the city of Shanghai. This research analyzes the efficiency of maglev technology and its consistency in successfully operating at a commercial level. It analyzes the urban setting of Shanghai, and the impact electromagnets have had on the landscape. Deformation and environmental vibration are linked to maglev technology and its severity is analyzed. The reversibility of these adverse effects is studied, and methods of monitoring are proposed. This study aims to identify the replicability of maglev technology in other urban cities across the world.

**Index Terms:** Intercity and urban application; Ground subsidence; Shanghai maglev; Environmental vibration; Maintenance protocols; Electromagnetic suspension.

## I. Introduction

The Shanghai Maglev Train, otherwise known as the Shanghai Transrapid, is the first, the fastest, and the only commercially operated magnetically levitated train in the world. Inaugurated on December 31, 2002, the Shanghai Maglev Train resides in the centermost city of Shanghai, China. It connects two highly transported destinations, the Longyang Road Station and the Pudong International Airport Station for a continued operation of 15 hours/day, 7 days/week. The Shanghai Maglev currently connects thirty kilometers, a distance traveled in just under eight minutes. These short times combined with an exceptional top operational velocity of 430km/h have brought international attention to the Shanghai Transrapid. Magnetic levitation, as the name suggests, operates through magnetic attraction and propulsion forces. The laws of physics demonstrate that like forces pull towards each other and opposite forces push away from each other. The combination and configuration of these behaviors are shifted electronically to maintain the Shanghai Maglev always levitating over its tracks.

As maglev technology becomes widely recognized and innovators push towards recreating these train systems internationally, it is essential to analyze the successful integration of the Shanghai Maglev Train in an urban setting. This study will analyze the electromagnetic suspension which categorizes the Shanghai Maglev to determine the adverse effects magnetic fields and their nature to vibrate have on building infrastructures. The longevity of maglev trains will be analyzed, focusing specifically on their impact on geological settlement. It is essential to recognize these concerns to implement a method of maintenance that can be universally applied and translated to similar technologies globally. These discoveries will demonstrate the components necessary to expand or replicate maglev train lines across other urban areas.

## II. Urban Integration

The 2002 implementation of the Shanghai Maglev Train line signified a revolutionary advancement in transportation technologies that changed the way people understood travel. A research study analyzing traffic congestion and environmental conservation in Shanghai, China, discovers that “the maglev system has the advantages of lower noise and vibration, better curve negotiation and grade abilities, higher reliability, and lower maintenance costs” (Han, 2024, p. 1). Compared to traditional rail-wheel transportation, the electromagnetic suspension that characterizes the Shanghai Transrapid allows the carriers to operate without touching any surfaces, reducing friction forces and subsequently improving comfortability for its passengers.

With a TR-08-designed train carrier divided into five sub-sections, the Shanghai Transrapid has a cumulative carrying capacity of roughly five hundred passengers. Luguang’s (2006) research focused on quantifying the operational efficiency of the Shanghai Maglev discovers that “till the end of May 2005, [Shanghai Maglev] operated safely and reliably for 883 days, [traveling a cumulative distance of] 1.56M km and carried 3.51M passengers” (p. 1139). The data collected underscores the operational efficiency of the maglev train and its ability to respond appropriately to the harsh demands of urban transportation. Throughout the years, the Shanghai Maglev has developed a proven track record that supports its reliability and successful integration in an urban setting. The operational success of the Shanghai Maglev is a direct testament to modern technology integrating to improve everyday life.

In a dimensional analysis of the size and operational abilities of the Shanghai Maglev, Luguang (2006) identifies that “The small bending radius (50–70 m) and high climbing capability (7–10%) make the maglev especially suitable for areas with small space and high roughness” (p. 1141). The design of the Shanghai Maglev appropriately adapts to urban settings, commonly characterized by their small spaces and intricate landscapes. These unique characteristics of being able to climb steep landscapes and bend tight corners directly address common transportation issues identified by urban cities by allowing maglev trains to operate around already existing infrastructure, reducing further modifications. These features combined push towards an understanding that maglev trains can thrive in urban cities and engage individuals more than traditional trains.

## III. EMS Vibrations

Electromagnetic suspension operates by manipulating the attractive force between iron-core electromagnets and ferromagnetic rails. The nature of this technology relies on continuously active suspension force adjustment, a shifting movement that creates consistent vibrations. In an environmental research article analyzing the impact of shifting magnetic forces, Han (2006) discovers that “during the running of a maglev train, the vehicle and railway track constantly vibrate and propagate the vibration to the surrounding environment…[causing] serviceability problems [and] even vibration pollution” (p. 2). These discoveries point towards the larger problem of extensive vibrations that extend far beyond just the Shanghai Maglev train line. This is especially concerning considering the large population of 24.87 million residents and the large commercial and residential areas that surround the maglev train line.

To quantify the magnitude of vibrations emitted by the Shanghai Maglev, Han (2006) determines “the irregularity… between adjacent girders has significant effects on the guideway structure vibration response, and the impact when maglev trains pass from girder to girder can reach up to 20 m/s^2” (p. 15). The vibrations emitted by the Shanghai Maglev, despite being below the human threshold, still pose a threat to the durability and extended integrity of the maglev train line. These characteristics hinder the replicability of maglev lines in other urban settings and pave the way for preventative practices that must be instilled to counteract these challenges. During the construction of the Metro Shield Tunnel undercrossing the Shanghai Maglev protected area, researchers proposed, “deformation monitoring should continue… [because] dynamic load [and vibration] can exist during the engineering operation period” (Wang, 2018, p. 1097). These preventative practices of monitoring deformation directly address the challenges presented by maglev technology. It is essential to recognize these adversities in future maglev applications to ensure the vibrational movements emitted do not deteriorate the maglev train’s efficiency.

## IV. Geological Settlement

Shanghai’s widely recognized fragile geological environment and poor engineering properties pose concerns about the impact vibrations have on ground subsidence. In a study analyzing ground deformation near the Maglev train line, researchers identified “vibration load caused by the operation of Maglev train… induced the dissipation of excess pore water pressure and contributed to the consolidation of surrounding soil” (Cui, 2015, p. 1777). The thick and poor-behaving soil that surrounds the Shanghai Maglev and the Yangtze River Delta displays characteristics of settlement growing larger along the magnetic suspension line. These unique challenges specific to Shanghai’s geological landscape raise concern regarding just how universal maglev may be.

To illustrate the geological complications researchers determined, “the operation of Maglev train can affect the stability of soil layers and increase land subsidence… [preventative] special measures must be made” (Cui, 2015, p.1778). Settlements negatively impact the structure of these intricate projects by increasing their internal stress, hindering performance, and reducing service life. In fact, soil properties directly impact the resilience of maglev infrastructures. Researchers discovered this phenomenon during a shield tunneling project near the Maglev train line’s protected area describing, “the soil… produced different degrees of deformation, [leading] to the deformation of the Maglev pile foundation, cap, and column” (Wang, 2018, p. 1095). These findings suggest that the geological characteristics under which maglev train lines are established play a critical role in the efficiency and longevity of these projects. It becomes essential to consider these factors when thinking of the possibility of expanding the train line or further introducing a similar technology around the world.

## V. Regulations and Maintenance

Given the intricate nature of electromagnetic suspension, it is essential to support the technology with equally advanced methods of monitoring and maintenance. To better understand how the Shanghai Maglev has persevered despite vibrational and geological challenges, researchers analyzed the current existing maintenance management core system; they discovered, “each subsystem… can adapt to the different characteristics of each subsystem, …can target special characteristics, …[and] avoids the mutual influence of diagnosis system” (Cui, 2015, p. 1934). These discoveries illustrate the efficiency of operating a management line that is run individually alongside the Shanghai Maglev. The efficiency of this management line is demonstrated through more than two decades of successful operation.

Further innovations introduce new methods of monitoring settlement which can be incorporated into maglev monitoring and can be universally translated to other maglev applications. During the construction of the Shanghai Metro Line 13 a new method of measuring settlement deformation was introduced which involved an observation ring being buried and an automatic monitoring system capturing automatically sampling intervals every 2 minutes (Wang, 2018, p. 1100). The introduction to comprehensive monitoring methods captures the importance of regulating external factors that also influence the integrity of maglev train lines. The incorporation of external analysis can work with existing monitoring systems to better prevent extraordinary occurrences.

In a study on the current methods of regulating the Shanghai Maglev, Cui (2015) finds that “Due that the user interface of the original system is not friendly enough to provide graphic operation, data entry and query of website forms, …the system is not convenient for operation and maintenance staff” (p. 1940). Given the limitations of the current method of monitoring electromagnetic suspension, it is essential to recognize that these maintenance practices may improve by merging the physical and digital worlds. By logging data and creating a digital system that can facilitate the analysis of specific components, maglev trains can be operated more efficiently, and the structural integrity of their platforms can remain intact.

## VI. Conclusion

The development of the Shanghai Maglev is a direct response to modern transportation challenges, inspiring innovation for advancements in urban transit systems. In analyzing the unique properties that give the Shanghai Maglev the ability to levitate and reach high velocities, multiple challenges regarding the viability of maglev technology were discovered. The challenges of extensive vibrations across nearby infrastructures were interpreted to understand the external implications large magnetic fields may have. The impact of these vibrations was also discovered to directly impact geological settings, effecting the settlement and hindering the infrastructures for the train lines.

Through this discovery though, methods of monitoring adverse changes were proposed to counteract possible negative effects produced by maglev technology. Together they work to facilitate the integration of maglev technology in other urban areas; allowing for a better understanding of the underlying factors that characterize maglev and create transparency between a new technology that is not widely recognized. Nonetheless, the success of the Shanghai Maglev represents a step-forward in discovering newer ways of moving around. It’s unique design and ability to maneuver around complex urban frameworks make it a great addition to dense urban cities like Shanghai. As cities continue to pursue faster methods of transportation, the accomplishments Shanghai Maglev has made thus far should serve to inspire.

---

## References

- **Chen, J., Gui, W., Cui, W., Tang, D., & Kong, L.** (2015). Analysis of Maintenance Management Core System on the Shanghai Maglev Demonstration Line. In CICTP 2015 (pp. 1931–1941). https://doi.org/10.1061/9780784479292.180
- **Cui, Z., & Yuan, Q.** (2015). Study on the settlement caused by the Maglev train. Natural Hazards, 75(2), 1767-1778. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11069-014-1396-9
- **Han, Z., Zeng, G., & Ye, F.** (2024). Research on Environmental Vibration Induced by High-Speed Maglev Transportation. Applied Sciences, 14(1), 413-. https://doi.org/10.3390/app14010413
- **Luguang, Y.** (2006). Progress of the Maglev Transportation in China. In IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity (Vol. 16, Issue 2, pp. 1138–1141). Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). https://doi.org/10.1109/tasc.2006.871345
- **Wang, G. Q., Hu, S. T., Ye, F., Zeng, G. F., & Lv, Q.** (2018). Comprehensive Technical Monitoring for Maglev Structure during Metro Shield Tunnel Undercrossing in Shanghai Maglev Protected Area. CICTP 2018: Intelligence, Connectivity, and Mobility - Proceedings of the 18th COTA International Conference of Transportation Professionals, 1095–1101. https://doi.org/10.1061/9780784481523.108
